[Music]
many times I go around the world to
speak and people ask me questions about
the challenges my movements some of my
regrets 1998 a single mother for three
months after the birth of my fourth
child I went to do a job as a research
assistant went or not in Liberia and as
part of the work the village will give
you lodgings and they gave me lodging
with a single mother and her daughter
this girl happened to be the only girl
in the entire village who had made it to
the ninth grade she was the
laughingstock of the community
her mother was often told by other women
you and your child will die for after
two weeks of working in that village it
was time to go back the mother came to
me knelt down and said Lima take my
daughter I wish for her to be a nurse
dirt pool living in the home with my
parents I couldn't a photo with tears in
my eyes I said no two months later I go
to another village on the same
assignment and it asked me to live with
the village chief the woman's chief of
the village has this little girl fair
color like me totally dirty and all day
she walked around only in her underwear
when I asked who is that she says that's
we the meaning of her name is pink
her mother died while giving birth to
her and no one had any idea who her
father was
for two weeks she became my companion
slept with me
I bought her used clothes and bought her
her first doll the nights before I left
she came to the room and said Lima don't
leave me here I wish to go with you I
wish to go to school dirt poor
no money living with my parents I again
said no two months later both of those
villages fell into another war till
today I have no idea where those two
girls are fast-forward 2004 in the peak
of our activism the minister of gender
Liberia called me and said we might have
a nine year old for you I want you to
bring her home because we don't have
safe homes the story of this new girl
she had been raped by her paternal
grandfather every day for six months she
came to me bloated very pill every night
I come from working lie on the cold
floor she lies beside me and say auntie
I wish to be well I wish to go to school
2010 or young woman stand before
President Sirleaf and give her testimony
of how she and her siblings live
together their father and mother died
during the war
she's 19 her dream is to go to college
to be able to support them she's highly
athletic one of the things that happens
is that she applied for a scholarships
for scholarship she gets it her dream of
going to school how wish of being
educated is finally here she goes to
school
on the first day the director of sports
who's responsible for getting her into
the program act her to come out of class
and for the next three years her faith
will be having sex with him every day as
favour forgetting her in school globally
we have policies
international instruments world leaders
great people have made commitment we
will protect our children from want and
from fear the UN has the Convention on
the Rights of the Child countries like
America we've heard things like No Child
Left Behind other countries come with
different things there is a Millennium
Development Goal tree that focuses on
girls all of these great work by great
people aimed at getting young people to
where we want to get them globally I
think has filmed in Liberia for example
teenage pregnancy rate is 3 so every ten
girls teen prostitution is at its peak
in one community we told you wake up in
the morning and see used condoms like
use chewing gum paper girls as young as
12 being prostituted for less than a
dollar or night is this happening is sad
and then someone asks me just before my
tech-talk few days ago so where is the
hope several years ago few friends of
mine decided we needed to bridge the
disconnect between our generation and a
generation of young women is not enough
to say you have two Nobel laureates from
the Republic of Liberia when your girls
kids are totally out there and no hope
or seemingly no hope we created a space
called the young girl's transformative
project we go into rural communities and
all we do like has been done in this
room is create this space when these
girls sit you unlock intelligence you
unlock passion you unlock commitment you
unlock focus you unlock great leaders
today we've worked with over 300 and
some of those girls who walked in the
room very shy have taken bold steps as
young mothers to go out there and
advocate for the
rights of other young women one young
woman I met teen mother of four never
taught about finishing high school
graduated successfully never thought
about going to college
enroll in college one day she said to me
my wishes to finish college and be able
to support my children she's at a place
where she can't find money to go to
school
she sells water sell soft drink and sell
recharge card for cell phones and you
would think she would take that money
and put it back into her education one
it is her name she takes that money and
find single mothers in her community to
send back to school says Lima my wish is
to be educated and if I can't be
educated when I see some of my sisters
being educated my wish has been
fulfilled I wish for a better life I
wish for food for my children I wish
that sexual abuse and exploitation in
schools will stop this is the dream of
the African girl several years ago there
was one African girl this girl had a son
who wish for a piece of donut because he
was extremely hungry angry frustrated
really upset about the state of her
society and the state of her children
this young girl started a movement a
movement of ordinary women banding
together to build peace I will fulfill
the wish this is another African girl's
wish I fail to fulfill the wish of those
two girls I fail to do this these were
the things that were going through the
head of this other young woman I failed
I failed I failed so I will do this we
may came out protested a brutal detector
fearlessly spoke not only did the wish
of a piece of donor come true the wish
of peace came true this young woman we
also to go to school she went to school
this young woman wish for other things
to happen it happened for her today this
young woman is me a Nobel laureate I'm
now on a journey to fulfill the wish in
my tiny capacity of little African girls
a wish I've been educated we set up a
foundation we're giving full four-year
scholarships to girls from villages that
we see with potential I don't have much
to acts of you I've also been to places
in this US and I know that girls in this
country also have wish wish for a better
life somewhere in the Bronx
wish for a better life somewhere in
downtown LA wish for a better life
somewhere in Texas wish for a better
life somewhere in New York wish for a
better life somewhere in New Jersey will
you journey with me to help that girl be
at an African girl or an American girl
or a Japanese girl fulfill her wish
fulfilled her dream achieved that dream
because all of these great innovators
and inventors that we've talked to and
sing over the last few days are also
sitting in tiny corners in different
parts of the world and all they're
asking us to do is create that space to
unlock the intelligence unlock the
passion unlock all of the great things
that they hold within themselves
let's journey together let's journey
together thank you
[Applause]
thank you so much right now in Liberia
what do you see as the main issue that
troubles you I've been asked to lead the
Liberian reconciliation initiative as
part of my work I'm doing these tours in
different villages and towns 1315 hours
on dirt roads and there is no community
that I've gone into that I haven't seen
intelligent girls but sadly the vision
of a great future or the dream of a
great future is just a dream because you
have all of these vices teen pregnancy
like I said is epidemic so what troubles
me is that and I was at that place and
somehow I'm at this place and I just
don't want to be the only one at this
place I'm looking for ways for other
girls to be with me I want to look back
20 years from now and see that there's
another Liberian girl Ghanaian girl
Nigerian girl it's European girl
standing on this stage and maybe just
maybe saying because of that Nobel
laureate I'm here today so I'm troubled
when I see them like there's no hope but
I'm also not pessimistic because I know
it doesn't take a lot to get them
charged up and in the last year
tell us one hopeful thing that you've
seen happening I can tell you many
hopeful things that I've seen happening
but in the last year where President
Sirleaf comes from her village we went
there to work with these girls and we
could not find 25 girls in high school
all of these girls went to the gold mine
and they were predominantly prostitutes
doing other things we took 50 of those
girls and we worked with them and this
was at the beginning of elections this
is one place where women were never even
the older ones barely sat in the circle
with the men
these girls banded together and form a
group and launched a campaign for voters
registration this is a real rule of the
leash and the team they use was even
pretty girls would they were able to
mobilize young women but not only they
did do that
they went to those who were running for
seats to ask them what is it that you
gave the girls of this community when
you win and one of the guys who already
had the seat was very because Liberia
has one of the strongest rape law and he
was one of those really fighting in
Parliament to overturn that law because
he called it barbaric rape is not by
Barry but the law he said was my barrack
and when the girl started engaging him
he was very hostile towards them these
little girls turned to him and said we
will watch you out of office his out of
office today
thank you thank you so much for coming
ahead thank you
[Applause]
[Music]